---
title: "Minutes: Annual Board Meeting 2023"
date: 2023-12-11T11:15:00+01:00
description: "December 15, 10 am CET (9 am GMT), Zoom"
type: "post"
---

# Agenda

1.	Welcome
2.	Deciding on a minute taker
3.	Agenda and potential addenda
4.	Year in Review: Activities 2023
5.	Quo vadis, Network?
    1. How open or closed do we want the network to be?
    2.	Frequency of Meetings, Possibility of Meeting in Person
    3.	What Do We Want and/or Need from this Network?
    4.	Ideas for Workshops, Events, Seminars
6.	Tasks and Responsibilities
7.	Misc

Attendants: Madita Knöpfle, Eline Elmiger, Sven Kraus, Tarrin Wills, Balduin Landolt, Juliane Tiemann, Beeke Stegmann, Nora Kauffeldt, Guðrún Laufey Guðmundsdóttir, Svenja Walkenhorst, William Duba

# 1.	Welcome
Chair: Madita Knöpfle
MK welcomes everyone to the meeting

# 2.	Deciding on a minute taker
EE will be taking the minutes and sending them around for comments. The network members have two weeks to correct and comment on what they do not want to be public on the Github Pages website. The shortened minutes will be published on the Github Pages Website.

# 3.	Agenda and potential addenda
MK presents the meeting agenda and network members have the opportunity to add agenda items.

# 4.	Year in Review: Activities 2023
MK gives an overview of the network’s activities this past year and thanks TW and SW for organizing workshops.
•	January: TW gave an introduction to SQL, BL and SK give the feedback that they were able to learn a lot from this.
•	February: GL explained the Handrit Power Search, it was very useful and helpful to get insider info on that. GL mentions that they are using a new system with Github now, which is much better. MK mentions that it would be great if there was a possibility to export Power Search results.
•	March: a Transkribus workshop with Tobial Hodel was organized, which was very interesting. It might also be good to invite him again, as there is a new web app. GL mentions that there are now new models for 18. and 19. century handwriting.
•	May: BL did a workshop on Git and Github. It covered a lot, and BL will continue to be available to help with questions about Github.
•	October: the report on the on-site workshop in Basel was published: https://edoc.hu-berlin.de/handle/18452/28141;jsessionid=A75577ABBA924D11275BF7C0E3B75040
•	November: a regular network meeting was held for network members to update each other on their work and projects.

# 5.	Quo vadis, Network?
## 1.	How open or closed do we want the network to be?
There is a discussion about how we want to handle the network and the workshops. We agree to promote our workshops more so that they are more visible in the academic community, and have the network run in the background. Anyone is invited to join workshops and events, and those who want to contribute actively are welcome to join the network.

## 2.	Frequency of Meetings, Possibility of Meeting in Person
MK opens the discussion on the frequency of the network meetings. Everyone agrees that it’s nice to have an annual meeting on Zoom at the end of the year. SK suggests that the network should be meeting ca. 2-3 times per semester, including all meetings like workshops and coffee chats. SW agrees with the idea of coffee chats where members can informally talk about projects. MK adds that these more informal meetings can also be shorter than a workshop, so they don’t take up too much time in people’s schedules.

## 3.	What Do We Want and/or Need from this Network?
MK summarizes the goals of the network as “learn something and share something” and opens the discussion for further inputs. BL mentions the platform Humanities Commons as a possibility for communication within the network, which we will talk more about in a later meeting once everyone has explored the platform.
SW asks for an overview about DH-projects in the realm of Old Norse Studies. SK remembers that in preparation for the workshop in Basel, the Basel group made a list of running and completed projects that we could update and publish on Github Pages.
TW wants to explore the possibility of an in-person meeting and suggests a conference with workshops, as it would be worth it to get people together for that and it would make it easier to get funding. SK adds that a hackathon integrated into a conference or a tinkering meeting (to play around with ChatGPT) might be fun. MK reminds the network about DHNB 2024, and BS adds that she could organize a room for a get-together. TW suggests proposing a workshop, the deadline is January 21st: https://dhnb.eu/conferences/dhnb2024/cfp/
BS mentions that the Manuscript Summer School will take place in the first two weeks of August, and TW suggests organizing a workshop for the participants.
NK asks whether someone knows more about funding that the University of Basel has for infrastructure of networks, which would be great for us, but no one can find out more at this point.

## 4.	Ideas for Workshops, Events, Seminars
SK and MK would like to invite Maria Effinger from the University Library in Heidelberg.
TW would like to hear a workshop about network databases and network analysis, for example what SK and BL are working on. SK will have the capacity to do this in the next fall term.
JT would like to hear something on MenotaBlitz and could contact Robert K. Paulsen (University of Bergen Library) for this.
SK would like to invite Anna Dorofeeva (Göttingen). WD is already in contact with her, as she is teaching a seminar using Fragmentarium.
SK is interested in diving more into machine learning after his PhD and maybe organize something with TW, and also publish a paper on that.
BL mentions that he likes the mix of more public workshops with external speakers and less formal presentations from people within the network.

# 6.	Tasks and Responsibilities
BL could send a reminder to check out Humanities Commons before the next meeting in February.
SK should remind the network when he is finished with his thesis and wants to dive into machine learning, so others from the network can join or help.
SW mentions that she has to step back from organizing workshops. TW is happy to continue organizing, but would like a co-organizer. JT will help with organizing workshops.
If someone already is in contact with a person who we’d like to do a workshop, they can be contacted directly, not necessarily via TW and JT.
NK remarks that it would be good to have a person who has an overview over planned meetings and meetings we want to do. TW adds that a person who chairs the network for a year could have this task. MK is suggested/volunteered and accepts.

# 7.	Misc
EE asks when the network will meet next. NK will send around a Doodle/Nuudel with possible dates in February.
MK concludes the meeting.
